# papers
List of publications:

# A Metrologic approach for camera calibration using traceable artefact, S.EL GHAZOUALI, LNE, FRANCEA Metrologic approach for camera calibration using traceable artefact, S.EL GHAZOUALI, LNE, FRANCE
International conference EUSPEN · 4 mai 2020

ABSTRACT:
Large dimension parts scanning is still a challenge in the field of dimensional metrology due to the required accuracy. Indeed, the measurement uncertainty is increasing with the size of the scanned object. Nowadays, camera-based scanning technologies enable to achieve a high level of accuracy on small surfaces in microelectronic domain (example of card inspection). Nevertheless, similar level of accuracy also is usually demanded for large volume parts. This topic is currently investigated by National Metrology Institutes (NMIs) under the project 17IND03 (LaVA). One objective of LaVA project is the improvement of the process of camera-based scanning techniques such as photogrammetry and computer vision by enhancing camera calibration also called camera re-sectioning. Camera calibration is an essential step for intrinsic and extrinsic parameters extraction, leading to correct efficiently the errors due to the decentering or misalignment of the lenses. The classical camera re-sectioning procedure is based on the observation of a printed black and white checkerboard; in this case, camera re-sectioning accuracy depends mainly on the precision of the printing machine. Therefore, a traceable material standard defined with a specific pattern is proposed in this paper. Both printed and traceable mechanical artefact have been experimentally investigated and compared.Large dimension parts scanning is still a challenge in the field of dimensional metrology due to the required accuracy. Indeed, the measurement uncertainty is increasing with the size of the scanned object. Nowadays, camera-based scanning technologies enable to achieve a high level of accuracy on small surfaces in microelectronic domain (example of card inspection). Nevertheless, similar level of accuracy also is usually demanded for large volume parts. This topic is currently investigated by National Metrology Institutes (NMIs) under the project 17IND03 (LaVA). One objective of LaVA project is the improvement of the process of camera-based scanning techniques such as photogrammetry and computer vision by enhancing camera calibration also called camera re-sectioning. Camera calibration is an essential step for intrinsic and extrinsic parameters extraction, leading to correct efficiently the errors due to the decentering or misalignment of the lenses. The classical camera re-sectioning procedure is based on the observation of a printed black and white checkerboard; in this case, camera re-sectioning accuracy depends mainly on the precision of the printing machine. Therefore, a traceable material standard defined with a specific pattern is proposed in this paper. Both printed and traceable mechanical artefact have been experimentally investigated and compared.
  
# Validation of Extrinsic Parameters of a Structured Light Scanner by a Multilateration with Self-Calibration Technique, S.EL GHAZOUALI, LNE, FRANCE
SSRN Electronic Journal January 2022 DOI: 10.2139/ssrn.4200178
ABSTRACT:
Structured lighting systems are increasingly used in industrial applications due to their scanning speed and their ability to provide high density of points. Such technologies are also used for the reconstruction of 3D objects while performing reverse engineering and mechanical investigations. Nevertheless, the accuracy of machine vision systems is the main drawback in comparison to coordinates measuring machines. The required internal and external parameters to achieve 3D scanning represents the core contributors to the accuracy achievement, since they are depending on the calibration process. Therefore, this paper is presenting a novel methodology for the optimisation of the calibration process based on optimal pose selection. The experiments demonstrate that the proposed method gives a better estimation of the extrinsic parameters in comparison to classic ones.

# Optimised calibration of machine vision system for close range photogrammetry based on machine learning, S.EL GHAZOUALI, LNE, FRANCEOptimised calibration of machine vision system for close range photogrammetry based on machine learning, S.EL GHAZOUALI, LNE, FRANCE
JKSU : Computer and information science · 25 juin 2022JKSU : Computer and information science · 25 juin 2022

ABSTRACT:
The inspection of large mechanical parts manufacturing in real time camera-based scanning systems are increasingly adopted in industry 4.0. It leads to take preventive actions during the manufacturing process and then to fabricate mechanical parts right-first-time with respect to specified tolerances. 
Therefore, the use of camera-based scanners request a preliminary calibration process. It consists on estimating the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters required to relate the 3D world point to its projection on the image plane. Since selection of the calibration grid poses affect the calibration quality, one approach-based machine learning (ML-approach) is proposed including the polynomial approximation of the reprojection errors function of 6 degree of freedom (DoF) combined with particle swarm optimization (PSO). Synthetic and experimental evaluations have been performed while assessing the performance of the proposed ML-approach. The synthetic evaluation reveals a better convergence of the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters compared to the recent published calibration Wizard method (CW-method). The experimental evaluation of the ML-approach shows an average error RE < 12µm and a sub-micrometre repeatability, which confirm the benefit of using machine vision-based scanning systems for the inspection large volume parts in real time.The inspection of large mechanical parts manufacturing in real time camera-based scanning systems are increasingly adopted in industry 4.0. It leads to take preventive actions during the manufacturing process and then to fabricate mechanical parts right-first-time with respect to specified tolerances. Therefore, the use of camera-based scanners request a preliminary calibration process. It consists on estimating the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters required to relate the 3D world point to its projection on the image plane. Since selection of the calibration grid poses affect the calibration quality, one approach-based machine learning (ML-approach) is proposed including the polynomial approximation of the reprojection errors function of 6 degree of freedom (DoF) combined with particle swarm optimization (PSO). Synthetic and experimental evaluations have been performed while assessing the performance of the proposed ML-approach. The synthetic evaluation reveals a better convergence of the intrinsic and extrinsic parameters compared to the recent published calibration Wizard method (CW-method). The experimental evaluation of the ML-approach shows an average error RE < 12µm and a sub-micrometre repeatability, which confirm the benefit of using machine vision-based scanning systems for the inspection large volume parts in real time.…voir plus

# Robotic 3D measurement system for large volume part investigation, S.EL GHAZOUALI, LNE, FRANCERobotic 3D measurement system for large volume part investigation, S.EL GHAZOUALI, LNE, FRANCE
3DMC international conference · 1 sept. 20213DMC international conference · 1 sept. 2021
ABSTRACT:
The 3D measurement of large volume and complex mechanical parts is a challenging research field. Nowadays, the traditional probe-contact CMM. are more and more neglected by manufacturers and industrials despite their excellent measurement accuracy. The problem with CMMs lies in their measurement time specifically for large parts and the low density offered by them. The topic of this presentation is the design and the conception of an appropriate metrological system used to perform 3D reconstructions of large and complexe part. A 3D vision system based on structured lighting is detailed as well its calibration process using plane-based methods.
